# An investigation into performance trade-offs in the use of high-level programming languages for a MySQL-backed HTTP REST API
 
 This repository contains the code for the system used in my 4th Year MSci project.
 
## Project Abstract
An ongoing issue in software systems that feature database components is performance. The benefit of this project is to enable developers to make more informed decisions regarding the selection of high-level programming languages used for SQL database interaction. This project aims to investigate the performance trade-offs present in the C#, Go, Java, JavaScript, and Python programming languages. This system operates by executing SQL operations on a MySQL database through the abstraction of representational state transfer application programming interfaces (REST APIs) created using these languages. These operations were performed using the HTTP protocol over a local network with the client and servers being hosted on separate virtual machines to mitigate any network related issues in performance. Metrics such as response resolution time, CPU and memory usage were recorded during the execution of the requests for each server. The results of this project conclude that the optimal language for the development of such a system depends heavily on the available resources of said system. It is recommended that when choosing a language for a similar system required to interact with an SQL database, the developer(s) should consider the computational limitations of the infrastructure on which the system will be operating.
